# Main Concepts


## Brnach Types
{{ pp_meta.name }} categorizes each branch of your repository into one of the following five types:
- **Release**: Release branches are the publication source for the different major versions of your package.
- **Pre-release**: Pre-release branches are transient branches that are
  the publication source for pre-release versions of your package, before they are merged into
  a release branch and published as a final release.
- **Development**: Development branches are created from a release branch,
  to apply and test changes before they are merged back into the release branch.
- **CI-pull-request**: CI-pull-request branches are created automatically by the CI/CD pipeline,
  to apply automatic updates to a branch and open a pull request for the changes.
- **Default**: The default (aka main) branch is a special case of a release branch,
  which always contains the latest version of your package.
  In addition, the meta content of the default branch is used as the source of truth for the entire repository.
  That is, other than some branch-specific meta contents and configurations
  (e.g., version-specific package metadata), all other configurations and data are read and applied
  from the default branch.


## Commit Types
{{ pp_meta.name }} categorizes each commit in your repository into one of the following five types:


### Primary Types
Primary commit types only exist on release branches, and are automatically generated by {{ pp_meta.name }}
when changes applied to a development branch are merged into a release branch.
These are further divided into two categories, primary action commits, and primary custom commits.


#### Primary Action Types
Primary action commits signify a primary action that is to be performed by {{ pp_meta.name }}
when changes are applied to a release branch. These actions are:
- **Package release**: Publish a new release of the package. This action is further categorized into:
  - **Major release**: Publish a new major release.
  - **Minor release**: Publish a new minor release.
  - **Patch release**: Publish a new patch release.
  - **Post release**: Publish a new post release.
- **Website release**: Publish a new release of the website.
- **Meta update**: Update the meta content of the release branch, and apply the changes to the entire branch,
  or the entire repository, when the target is the default branch.


#### Primary Custom Types
Primary custom commits are additional user-specified primary commits that only exist on release branches,
but do not induce any action by {{ pp_meta.name }},
other than the default workflow actions that are always applied, e.g., linting, testing etc.


### Secondary Types
Secondary commit types are divided into two categories, secondary action commits, and secondary custom commits.


#### Secondary Action Types
Secondary action commits signify a secondary action that is to be performed by {{ pp_meta.name }},
when changes are applied to a branch. These actions are:
- **Meta sync**: Synchronize all dynamic files and directories in the branch with its updated meta content.
- **Hook fix**: Apply pre-commit hooks to the branch, and fix any issues that are found.


#### Secondary Custom Types
Secondary custom commits only exist on development branches and pre-release branches.
The user can specify any number of secondary custom commit types, and link each of them to a specific
section of a specific changelog file. When the branch is merged into a release branch,
the corresponding changelogs will be automatically updated
using the commit messages of the secondary custom commits.


## Label Types
{{ pp_meta.name }} uses GitHub labels to categorize issues and pull requests.
This not only helps the maintainers to organize and prioritize their work,
but also allows {{ pp_meta.name }} to automatically manage
the development and maintenance process of your project.
{{ pp_meta.name }} uses the following labels to categorize issues and pull requests:
