# Outputs

## Dynamic Files
License: license.path
Codeowners: maintainer.code_owners.path
README: readme.*.path
Health Files: health.*.path
Website environment files: web.env
Announcement file: announcement.path
Package README: package.readme.path
Package pyproject.toml: package.path
Issue forms: issue.forms[*].path
Pull request forms: pull.template
Discussion forms: discussion.category
Tool config and env files: tools.*

Changelogs: changelog.*.path


### Fixed Path
Citation: CITATION.CFF
Funding: .github/FUNDING.yml
gitignore: .gitignore
gitattributes: .gitattributes

## Dynamic Directories
Media: theme.path
Website: web.path
Package: package.path
Tests: test.path
Control center: control.path
Local directory: local.path


{{ pp_meta.name }} gathers all the contents of your repository's control center into a single JSON file,
which is automatically updated whenever you apply changes to the control center.
This file, which is located at `{{ pp_meta.custom.path.file_metadata }}`, serves two main purposes:
- During workflow runs triggered by events that do not modify the contents of the control center,
  {{ pp_meta.name }} uses this file to read all the necessary data and configurations,
  instead of unnecessarily parsing and processing the control center's contents from scratch.
- It is made available to your documentation website, allowing you to use all available data and configurations
  in your website's content and templates, without any required intervention from {{ pp_meta.name }}.


The options available in your repository's control center can be divided into three categories:
- {{ pp_meta.name }}-specific configurations and data; these are directly read from your
  control center's contents whenever needed.
- GitHub-specific configurations and data that can be directly set using GitHub's UI, CLI, or API;
  these are directly applied to your repository by {{ pp_meta.name }}.
- Configurations and data for your GitHub/Git repository, package, test-suite, documentation website,
  and all external tools used in your project, which must be placed in specific files
  at specific locations in your repository, to be read and used by the corresponding
  platforms, tools, and services that require them.

This section covers the third category, providing a full reference of all such files
that are automatically generated in your repository by {{ pp_meta.name }}.


:::{admonition} Dynamic Files
:class: important

These are all dynamic files, meaning that {{ pp_meta.name }} will automatically
update them whenever you apply changes to the corresponding options in your control center.
Therefore, you should never manually edit these files, as your changes will be overwritten
by {{ pp_meta.name }} the next time they are updated. Instead, you should always
apply your changes to the corresponding options in the control center.
:::


::::{grid} 1 2 2 2
:gutter: 3

:::{grid-item-card} Metadata File
:class-title: sd-text-center
:link: metadata
:link-type: doc

A JSON file containing all the contents of your repository's control center,
augmented with additional data generated by {{ pp_meta.name }}.
:::

:::{grid-item-card} Package Files
:class-title: sd-text-center
:link: package
:link-type: doc

Source files for your Python package and its corresponding test suite,
and all related configuration and metadata files.
:::

:::{grid-item-card} GitHub Files
:class-title: sd-text-center
:link: github
:link-type: doc

GitHub-specific configuration files for your repository,
such as issue, pull request, and discussion templates, etc.
:::

:::{grid-item-card} Git Files
:class-title: sd-text-center
:link: git
:link-type: doc

Git-specific configuration files for your repository,
such as gitignore and gitattributes files.
:::

:::{grid-item-card} Tools Config Files
:class-title: sd-text-center
:link: tools
:link-type: doc

Configuration files for external tools and services used in your project.
:::

:::{grid-item-card} License Files
:class-title: sd-text-center
:link: license
:link-type: doc

License files for your repository and Python package.
:::

:::{grid-item-card} Health Files
:class-title: sd-text-center
:link: health
:link-type: doc

Community health files for your project and GitHub repository,
such as code of conduct, contributing guidelines, etc.
:::

:::{grid-item-card} README Files
:class-title: sd-text-center
:link: readme
:link-type: doc

The main README file of your GitHub repository,
along with README files for all its directories and subdirectories.
:::

::::
