# Commit Types
{{ pp_meta.name }} categorizes each commit in your repository into one of the following five types:


## Primary Types
Primary commit types only exist on release branches, and are automatically generated by {{ pp_meta.name }}
when changes applied to a development branch are merged into a release branch.
These are further divided into two categories, primary action commits, and primary custom commits.


### Primary Action Types
Primary action commits signify a primary action that is to be performed by {{ pp_meta.name }}
when changes are applied to a release branch. These actions are:
- **Package release**: Publish a new release of the package. This action is further categorized into:
  - **Major release**: Publish a new major release.
  - **Minor release**: Publish a new minor release.
  - **Patch release**: Publish a new patch release.
  - **Post release**: Publish a new post release.
- **Website release**: Publish a new release of the website.
- **Meta update**: Update the meta content of the release branch, and apply the changes to the entire branch,
  or the entire repository, when the target is the default branch.


### Primary Custom Types
Primary custom commits are additional user-specified primary commits that only exist on release branches,
but do not induce any action by {{ pp_meta.name }},
other than the default workflow actions that are always applied, e.g., linting, testing etc.


## Secondary Types
Secondary commit types are divided into two categories, secondary action commits, and secondary custom commits.


### Secondary Action Types
Secondary action commits signify a secondary action that is to be performed by {{ pp_meta.name }},
when changes are applied to a branch. These actions are:
- **Meta sync**: Synchronize all dynamic files and directories in the branch with its updated meta content.
- **Hook fix**: Apply pre-commit hooks to the branch, and fix any issues that are found.


### Secondary Custom Types
Secondary custom commits only exist on development branches and pre-release branches.
The user can specify any number of secondary custom commit types, and link each of them to a specific
section of a specific changelog file. When the branch is merged into a release branch,
the corresponding changelogs will be automatically updated
using the commit messages of the secondary custom commits.
